well howdy there Internet boo Bullards
bow again so tonight we're going to talk
about y2k if you don't remember or
weren't old enough yet 20 years ago that
was the thing that was just going to get
us all so what happened when computers
first came around they didn't have a lot
of memory so programmers looked for a
way to cut corners any way they could
one of those ways was shortening the
year in the date to two digits 98
instead of 1998 wasn't a big issue at
the time then somebody realized that
when it rolled around to 2,000 the
computers would think it was 1900 and
that was going to cause issues as an
example want you to imagine opening a
checking or a savings account in 1998
two years later the computer would be
compiling interest on that account from
1900 that's a good outcome for most
people except for the banks the downside
to that would be a prescription that
expired before it was written the worry
was that these would have kind of a
domino effect and eventually impact
critical infrastructure and they talked
about it for years
doom and gloom all the time mm roll
around and nothing happened and
everybody kind of thought it was
overblown people think wasn't a big deal
and that's when you run into be one of
the big paradoxes of crisis management
of the security industry in general your
failures are known your successes are
not the reality is that we spent almost
half a trillion dollars to fix this
problem so it wouldn't become a problem
now some of that money was spent just
kicking the can down the road a little
bit some of the programmers in again an
attempt to kind of cut corners they
didn't move over to a four-digit date
system they just went in and told the
computer that from zero zero two to zero
well that was in the 2000s everything
else was the 1900s and that's why this
month we've had some problems and but it
demonstrated that the fear was real you
had a lot of glitches and some were
pretty significant in those programmers
defense I would suggest that most of
them did not believe their system or
software would still be in use 20 years
later some of them were wrong but
luckily for the most part they were
right and these glitches have been
isolated this whole thing can teach us a
whole lot about climate change since the
topic comment came up we've been doing
little things to kick the can down the
road things that make us feel better
things to make it seem like we're doing
something but we're not actually solving
the problem and we're running out of
time
we're in December of 1999 and we're
still arguing about whether or not we
should do anything we are running out of
time and the impacts are substantial
there's no doubt about that I was
looking at some of the projections for
sea-level rise it's cool for me cool for
me where I'm at right now it's gonna be
about a tenth of a mile from the coast
quarter of a mile from the coast that's
cool problem is I'm thirty miles inland
right now that's 30 miles of people that
are gonna be really upset granted that's
worst case that is worst case but even a
lot of the moderate even best case
scenario
we end up losing a lot of things we've
come to know and love like Miami New
Orleans we're already seeing issues
crabs in the Pacific the waters become
so acidic that it's dissolving their
shells we're seeing the impacts it's not
a hoax it's real I remember a time when
scientists were generally trusted today
we're believing politicians / scientists
one
one of these groups is known for
pursuing truth and facts the other is
known as lying manipulators and those
are the ones we're trusting with our
future we might want to rethink that and
we need to understand that yes dealing
with climate change is going to be
expensive fact but we spent almost half
a trillion dollars to deal with a date
so wouldn't become an issue now 20 years
later we act like it was overblown like
it wasn't really a concern because our
failures are known and our successes are
not I would really hope that in 2100
people look back at climate change I
think man what were they thinking wasn't
that big of a deal
that would be the best-case scenario the
alternative is that people know we
failed anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night